[Music]
massage your belly for 15 minutes to
make it flat you know how when you have
a stomachache or you feel bloated
you automatically put your hand on your
belly well that's your instincts trying
to help you find some relief from
something that's making you
uncomfortable as always your instincts
are spot on touch in the form of massage
or pressure is an excellent solution to
tons of problems including belly fat and
discomfort
before you start massaging yourself to a
flatter happier tummy be sure to hit
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side that's right there is a
massage technique out there that can
flatten out a puffy stomach and smooth
out pockets of fat around the midsection
not only that it can help with
constipation menstrual cramps and even
boost your immune system massage itself
brings freshly oxygenated blood to your
muscles and internal organs thus
improving your circulation and the
function of these organs oh and did I
mention you can totally do it yourself
from the comfort of your own home yes
the movements are very simple and can be
performed every day you can do them
lying down or standing up in front of a
mirror abdominal massages are great if
you're struggling with bloating and
water retention as well as decreased
self-esteem and anxiety as a result of
your puffy belly just take it from the
experts in a 2015 study conducted at
Taiwan's national taipei university of
nursing and health science researchers
had participants suffering from bloating
and excess fluid retention to a
15-minute stomach massage twice a day
after just three days the participants
reported decreased abdominal bloating
they also said they felt better overall
both physically and emotionally when
you're first starting to do the massage
experts recommend going slow and being
gentle with your body if you find that
some areas of your
abdomen are a bit tender lighten your
pressure lying down and standing up are
both effective positions to take but
most beginners get the best results when
lying down on the floor or in a bed
after you feel comfortable performing
the techniques lying down you can then
transition to doing them while standing
up while we're at it here are three tips
about massage in general that will help
you understand the effects and goals on
a deeper level one toxins in your body
are released during massage that's why
it's highly recommended that you
increase your intake of fluids
specifically water during this time this
will help your body get rid of those
released toxins more effectively and
efficiently too if you decide to lie
down while doing the self massage
alternate your knees to either side to
give the body a stretch and provide some
balance 3 be consistent beat be
consistent become your body's
cheerleader and try to get in a couple
of 20 minute massages everyday you can
do it when you wake up in the morning
and before you go to sleep at night
you'll probably start to notice
improvements around the two week mark
laps oh now that's out of the way let's
talk about the setup and expectations in
terms of oils it's better to use olive
oil or coconut oil when you pour the oil
on your hands always rub them together
to warm them up to prepare your
environment for the massage turn off
your phone or TV and choose a quiet and
warm space with low lighting do not
perform the massage right after eating
or if you have a bad stomach ache or the
flu if you perform the massages for
menstrual cramp relief keep in mind that
they do increase blood flow for the best
results you have to combine this self
massage with a low calorie diet and
exercise regimen at least three times a
week it's always a good idea to consult
your doctor before trying any at home
remedies like massage 12 you get started
here's a sample massage regimen step 1
overlap your hands place them on your
stomach on top of your navel and take a
few breaths
breathe in by inflating your stomach and
exhale by pushing your stomach downward
with your hands repeat three times this
first exercise helps relax your stomach
and get it ready for the subsequent
massages step 2
pour a little oil on your hands and rub
them together perform a circular
clockwise massage on the entire belly
with your palms do this three times step
3 place your right hand under the left
rib and perform small circular massages
repeat the movement on the other side
with your left hand under your right rib
this massage should always be done with
the opposite hand do three repetitions
on each side
step four with your right hand place
three fingers between your sternum and
bellybutton again do small circular
massages moving diagonally down to your
right hip bone and passing over the
transverse colon repeat with the left
hand moving toward the left hip bone do
three reps on each side step five with
three fingers of your left hand start
from the left hip bone and move straight
up using circular motions repeat on the
right side with three fingers of your
right hand starting from the right hip
bone and going up in circular motions
again do three on each side
this massage stimulates the ascending
and descending colon step 6
place both hands on either side of your
belly with your palms facing each other
then push your hands towards each other
while squeezing your tummy between them
perform this movement three times step 7
next we're gonna try something the
French invented to get rid of cellulite
the pal pal rouille technique it's
basically a manual manipulation of the
body cellulite simply pinch your belly
skin and slide your fingers from bottom
to top each time grabbing a new flap of
skin do three reps this technique is
great for eliminating cellulite just
know that it can be painful if you have
too much flab step 8
grab your belly in both hands and give
your stomach a shake this will stimulate
and activate circulation doing this
three times will be enough step 9
finally perform a circular
counterclockwise massage on your entire
stomach with the palm of your hands and
you guessed it do three reps to finish
it off
remember these tummy massages aren't
just effective for flattening the belly
they can also help alleviate discomfort
caused by problems like indigestion
constipation gas or PMS of course most
physical problems bring on emotional
stress so it's great knowing that you
can get rid of that too right and don't
forget that you can add and should use
essential oils in a blend for your tummy
massage according to doctor axes oil
guide essential oils can fight cold and
flu symptoms relax your body and soothe
sore muscles heal skin conditions
alleviate pain
balance hormones improve digestion
reduce cellulite and wrinkles
not to mention different oils give you
different experiences and effects on the
body here are some ideas for your oil
blends use 4 teaspoons of sweet almond
carrier oil as a base for a soothing
calming pain relieving experience use 6
drops of lavender and two drops of
bergamot for a soft and soothing
experience use six drops of sweet orange
two drops of geranium and two drops of
peppermint once you settle on your
favorite oil combo take 1tsp of your
chosen blend in your right hand and
smooth it all over your belly start at
your right hip use your right hand to
stroke up under your rib cage and down
your left side across your lower abdomen
making a complete circle repeat this
five times starting at your sides
slowly crisscross both hands over the
top of your abdomen five times feel free
to use your favorite oils or oil blends
to make this a truly unique and
customized self-care experience have you
ever tried abdominal massages to flatten
your body support digestion or even just
as a relaxation technique let us know in
the comments don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]
you